so we'll come out of that press
conference now in rockhampton beach wa
premier mark mcgowan they're expressing
his personal concern over the covert
outbreak in new south wales
announcing that new south wales will now
move from being
a low-risk state to a medium-risk state
and from midnight tonight
the hard border with new south wales
will be reinstated
travel from new south wales will no
longer be permitted to wa
there will be exemptions that will be
assessed on a case-by-case basis
the premier also asked western
australians to avoid
traveling to new south wales
we'll now move to sport news now and
international tennis players will be on
charter flights into melbourne
and allowed to train during two weeks of
hotel quarantine
leading up to the australian open the
victorian government has signed off on a
bubble plan
in which players and support staff will
travel between designated hotels
and melbourne park tennis officials have
warned that any breaches of the strict
rules
will result in players being thrown out
of the tournament
and the country match point for party
the date's set
for the australian open and now a
quarantine plan for players has been
signed off they're very strict
requirements
you know clearly it's a balancing act
about 1100 players in their entourage
will touch down in melbourne next month
to undergo two weeks of mandatory hotel
quarantine
they'll be allowed out to train for up
to five hours each day
all of the time that they're spent
training is
observed to make sure that they're not
mixing
if there's any breaching of those
conditions that play will be immediately
removed from our country and
as well as be fine i would hope that
there is proper scrutiny over those
quarantine issues and make sure that
those
any outbreak's limited spectators will
be staggered throughout the stands here
at melbourne park
organizers are planning for crowds at 50
capacity but that could all change with
just over
50 days to go until the open gets
underway
obviously anything can change and we'll
be fully aware of that
while there's certainty over the
australian open other major sporting
events
are in doubt cricket officials remain
confident the sydney test
can go ahead but there's heavy cloud
over the sydney to hobart yacht race
the sydney to hobart is actually the
race that actually stops the nation
people come from all over australia to
participate in the race
as well as watch the race for it to not
to go ahead
obviously it is unprecedented smooth
sailing for some events
a bumpy ride for others tom maddox abc
news
melbourne well india has been bowled out
for its lowest score in test history to
be crushed by australia inside three
days
in the first test at adelaide oval it's
the first time
indian captain virat kohli has lost a
test after winning the toss
while australia remains unbeaten in pink
ball matches
when the lights were last on in this day
night test the indians had a handy lead
and although they lost a lake wicked
australia's spinning was interesting
i think it puts us in a very good
position to take a few more early
wickets tomorrow and get ourselves uh
really in the hunt for this game as it
turned out though there was no hunt
instead it was a stroll for the home
side
easy catch pat cummins did the damage
first up with two scalps
before josh hazelwood nicked off two
more and all of a sudden india was
five for fifteen
and then india's premier batsman became
cummins 150th test wicket
it took a while to confirm but virat
kohli eventually left
and will soon depart australia to be at
the birth of his first child
next it was hazelwood's turn again two
wickets in as many deliveries
the second his 200th test victim
[Applause]
eight for 26 but this boundary at least
took the indians beyond the lowest test
score in history
it was a brief respite as hanumak bihari
became australian skipper tim payne's
fifth
catch and the innings ended when
muhammad sharmi was forced to retire
hurt
there was pain for joe burns too
staggered by this blow as the home side
pursued the meager target
he pushed through the pain to find some
form while matthew wade was in good
touch
and a touch unlucky to get out he's just
flicking off the stumps as easy
the boxing day test looms but australia
may already have landed the knockout
blow in the series
neil cross abc news adelaide
ben mcdermott master class has guided
the hobart hurricanes to a six
wicket win over the melbourne renegades
and to the top of the bbl table this
afternoon
mcdermott blasted an unbeaten 89 which
included five sixes and seven boundaries
as hobart reached its victory target
with 14 balls to spare
how good is that
it's even better earlier sam harper and
riley russo both made half centuries for
the renegades with hobart debutant kimo
pool
receiving a rude welcome to the bbl but
the visitors liked support
making just 157 from their 20 overs
scott bolland was the best of the
hurricanes bowlers taking two for 19
from his four overs
[Music]
on the satellite a monsoon trough and
developing low in the northern tropics
are generating heavy rain
storms and gusty winds troughs are
triggering showers and storms in parts
of queensland
the northern territory wa and south
australia
and cool winds in the wake of a cold
front are bringing showers to the
southeast
looking around the country for tomorrow
next mostly sunny in queensland's
southeast
clearing showers in the southwest and
showers for the north
in new south wales and the a.c.t showers
for the northeast and southeast
sunny elsewhere a mostly sunny day in
victoria with the exemption of some
showers and storms in the southeast
showers for tasmania's southwest and
northeast late showers elsewhere
in south australia sunny in the
southeast and central parts
showers in the west and late showers in
the north sunny in wa
south windy in the northwest and showers
in the northeast
and a wet day for the northern territory
with rain expected in the north
and showers increasing over the interior
and south
looking ahead to monday's forecast for
our capital cities rain for sydney
showers developing in melbourne a shower
or two for adelaide and canberra and
hobart
partly cloudy in brisbane sunny in perth
and
showers and a possible storm for darwin
with a top there of 32.
just recapping our breaking news this
hour from wa
state premier mark mcgowan has announced
that new south wales
will move from being a low-risk state to
a medium risk
state and from midnight tonight the hard
border with new south wales will be
reinstated
travel from new south wales will no
longer be permitted to wa
there will be exemptions that will be
assessed on a case-by-case basis
and the premier also asked west
australians to avoid travel
to new south wales well that is the
latest from abc news remember you can
keep
up to date at news.abc.net.u and on
eyeview
from myself and the team thank you for
joining us tonight do stay with us
foreign correspondent is coming up next
[Music]
[Applause]
when you strip away the cultural
non-inclusiveness of christmas
what are we left with a
non-denominational pagan special
all washed out under the shade of a
cooler bar cask
mad as hell pagan holiday special
tomorrow 8 30
abc and iview a summer of entertainment
awaits on abc eye view
anywhere anytime
your summertime streaming is on abc eye
view
know the tradition cultural bird brings
the land back to life
know the reason the most important thing
to me as a gundangara person is
protecting country for future
generations
know the languages reporting from our
country lara kia country
reporting from ghana country reporting
from pinematic from larakia country
i'm on your toyota country from nepaluna
lutrowita
for abc news know the meaning i in this
country this country is me
know the story with abc news
[Music]
welcome back to another episode of
foreign correspondent retrospective
a special series on the extraordinary
rise of china over the past decade
as witnessed by our correspondents
one story china doesn't want the world
to see is the mass repression of more
than a million
uyghurs a muslim ethnic minority in the
country's remote north
west china says that harsh security
measures
were imposed to combat islamist
extremists
but advances in commercial satellite
technology
have now exposed the vast industrial
scale
of china's repression showing massive
work camps designed to hold
hundreds of thousands of uyghurs
beijing stands accused of trying to
eliminate
uyga culture and identity through a mass
programme of forced assimilation
back in 2014 as the crackdown on the
uyghurs first intensified
correspondent stephen mcdonnell ventured
out to xinjiang province
to throw some light on china's own war
on terror
so
china's far west has long been a place
of mystery
isolation great beauty and at times
[Music]
threat
where we're heading politics religion
and
identity have been combining to produce
a murderous result
hundreds have died over the past year
following violent clashes
[Music]
the government blames the bloodshed on
independence seeking ethnic
uighurs who've lived in this tough
landscape for generations
we're delving into one of the most
sensitive matters in china today
we pass the old border post and enter
xinjiang
next to pakistan and afghanistan it's
more than one and a half
million square kilometers mostly made up
of dramatic sprawling desert with the
occasional oasis
immediately you come across paramilitary
police and
swat teams cars pulled over
identification documents registered
reporters haven't been able to get to
the bottom of events here
because of the many places to which we
can't get access
we're attempting to cross the province
to try and
find out what's been causing the tension
and the killing
president xi jinping's china is becoming
more hardline right across the country
here it's extreme though some would say
with good reason
[Music]
last year a team of jihadists from
xinjiang
planned to strike an iconic location
they were after a shocking image to go
round the world
[Music]
a car was driven into a crowd in front
of beijing's tiananmen
gate killing and maiming as it went
said to be a suicide mission the vehicle
burst into flames with a uighur man his
wife
and mother-in-law all inside
yet the majority of violence has
happened inside
xinjiang just about every month there's
a new report
of a police station being raided or
civilians
as the target of bombings or stabbings
security forces have also fired on
crowds of angry wiggers
[Music]
this is being motivated by training
videos from nearby countries
according to the chinese government
neighborhoods here tend to form along
ethnic lines
and our first city is no exception it's
known as hami in chinese or kumal in
wiga
in the 1950s han chinese made up
11 of the population in this province
now after waves of government-sponsored
migration
they account for around half of those
living here
some critics say it's a deliberate
attempt to outnumber the locals
[Music]
for us it won't be long till chinese
security is on our tail
so we head straight to a predominantly
weaker street
[Applause]
[Music]
people come here to buy the traditional
clothing
that's still popular in everyday attire
machines have replaced hand weaving but
the designs have been passed down for
generations
wiga family business has benefited from
an 18
000 grant from the government and we're
told the town is getting more prosperous
but what sort of a place is it becoming
um
[Music]
foreign
the uyghurs are turkic speaking sunni
muslims
who've been ruled by local warlords
chinese emperors and
mongolian raiders with only brief tastes
of independence
they're a welcoming
yeah that's fresh
it's good though it's good when it's
fresh yeah
it's really cool nice
these days if a uyghur travels beyond
their home
town this draws the immediate attention
of the police
so it doesn't take long for a foreign tv
crew
to be well and truly on the radar of the
local security apparatus
[Music]
police say we'll need special permission
to be here working
in this country you can feel it and
you're about to be followed
quite a bit
we're allowed to leave and though the
stretches between
towns along the road blocks ahead have
been
told we're coming
we're pulled over and our car is
confiscated
we have to move all our gear into a
police-provided vehicle
they claim our driver doesn't have the
right paperwork to ferry people around
and want us to move on to the next town
without him
they seem to have him on a technicality
but when they tell us that our
translator has to go with them as well
as a witness we decide to draw a line
woman woman
they cave in and allow our translator to
travel with us
after he provides a statement
our next town shanshan or pichain in
wiga
sits at the foot of enormous sand dunes
they spread for thousands of kilometers
and would be dangerous to get lost in
[Music]
it's more than 40 degrees here so i go
to buy some beer
with five government minders following
me we're told they're here to help
and we'll be helping every time we leave
our hotel
sure enough next morning when we try to
leave and
film there's a welcoming committee on
hand
no need for a taxi we're told because
our official friends will take us
[Music]
they say we're in breach of procedures
for not having formally applied to
conduct
interviews here
in chicago
yet apparently the special procedures
don't extend to filming the scenery
so soon we're off to see this town's
most famous attraction
these massive dunes used to attract
travellers in much greater numbers
yet many have been scared off by the
recent tensions
well have a look at this eh
[Music]
away from the cameras travel companies
say numbers have halved amongst
foreigners
with a drop-off of up to 90 percent
amongst
chinese tourists even this is a
sensitive subject
we'd love to be able to speak to both
wigas
and han chinese about what it's like
living here
but that is absolutely not going to be
permitted
by local government officials the funny
thing is if you were able to do those
interviews you'd get all manner of views
some people would be unhappy with the
situation especially
uyga's but you know you'd get others
who think that there is development here
and the place
is improving
day three in xinjiang and we're being
driven to the next
place by our minders they're keen to
make us
somebody else's responsibility and don't
really care what we do
as long as we're not doing it in their
jurisdiction
[Music]
we arrive in turpan and can barely leave
the car before a new team of smiling
officials is upon us
here even by chinese standards the
tailing
will be remarkable
and this is interesting those guys have
been following us here they come again
we're actually getting the lift
you'll nervous our friends are just even
in the foyers hotel following us around
and sure enough in they come
one two
and three
at any time of the day or night the
corridor of our hotel floor
is like a busy street with the same 10
or 11 young men
desperately trying to act as if it's
normal to hang around outside our rooms
[Music]
one man leaves his surveillance notes on
our movements where we can spot
them number one went into number two's
room
number two back to his room number three
and number four went out together
and so on
it might seem ridiculous to try and deny
that these
men have been sent to follow us but our
top shelf
party loyalist will at least give it a
go
we also ask for help to line up an
interview with an
imam and to our great surprise one is
organised
the guests from our hotel follow us
there in convoy as well
[Music]
and he welcomes us into his 90 year old
mosque
in xinjiang the government keeps a close
eye on religious institutions
and can veto appointments in this
province
veils for women and beards for men are
actively discouraged by the authorities
we ask if people are free to practice
their religion
[Music]
er killing we also
ask why so much killing has occurred
recently
especially uighurs killing han chinese
are not satisfied with their lives
a team of government officials records
every word the imam
says his can be a dangerous job
an imam will get into big trouble if he
questions the communist party's handling
of things
but being too close to the authorities
can also be deadly
in july this year in another city an
imam
seen as two pro government was stabbed
to death in a political assassination
we ask why this might have happened
[Music]
this imam certainly has a difficult path
to navigate
we've found a new driver and on the way
to the regional capital
we passed some of the historical and
economic reasons for wanting to hang on
to this territory
on xinjiang's highways cars are now
being stopped for full
airport style bag scans
the government's message you think you
can pressure us
try this for pressure
[Laughter]
who are you where are you going how do
you know each other
soon we're in urumqi a prosperous city
with wigas in the minority
and very chinese characteristics
most people you talk to seem to like
living here
but a few months ago the calm
was smashed to pieces
you can't really tell now but this
street was once the site of a morning
market
all the way along here there were stalls
selling food and the locals would come
out to buy their breakfast
in may this year that's exactly what
they were doing when a couple of cars
pulled up
it's not quite clear what happened next
but those inside have either thrown
explosive devices
out of the vehicles or set off bombs
inside the cars
39 passes by were killed four of the
bombers died as well
though one was captured it was a bloody
attack which
sent shock waves through this community
tommy
foreign
took the dead and wounded from the
bombed marketplace to hospital
in a largely harmed chinese area most of
those killed were elderly people
too
[Music]
whose parents and grandparents were from
urumqi
seem genuinely bewildered that social
harmony is cracking apart here
[Music]
the government's solution is integration
in one town uighurs and han chinese
are being offered generous cash handouts
if they intermarry
teaching in the uyghur language is
disappearing in schools
everywhere and it's almost non-existent
at universities
but to really test the pulse of xinjiang
you have to head to the south
across the taklamatan desert in places
like hotan
uyghurs are still in the majority
[Music]
here many unsophisticated but brutal
attacks
have meant a heavier security presence
than in the north
in the south the internet is at times
totally blocked
and phone texting prevented
here we briefly shake our considerable
escort
and get our only opportunity to speak to
a group of uighurs
without a dozen police and other
officials intimidating them
they're farmers seeking work in
construction or as seasonal fruit
pickers
and what do they think is causing the
tension here
so even here when we're in a crowd and
we
once you ask people about the violence
what's caused it they
the crowd doesn't want to talk about it
they happy to talk about their lives
but they feel obviously it's a bit too
dangerous to speak about these things
even if they're not involved so even
just to give an opinion
is something that could really get you
into trouble
as for possible solutions
[Music]
good
foreign
[Music]
we decide to visit a village in which
nearly 100 people were killed this july
other foreign journalists have not been
allowed into ali xihu
we're driving now to the town which has
seen the
largest recent violent incident and the
numbers are quite
staggering according to official reports
amongst the passers-by two uyghurs were
killed
and 35 han chinese killed
amongst the attackers 59 were shot dead
by police
and another 215 captured
by the local authorities now this has
been labeled like
other incidents as a terrorist attack
but with numbers like this it doesn't
seem like what you would call by any
definition a terrorist
type attack it sounds like some sort of
a grievance that's gotten out of hand
which and a mob has just attacked the
local police station and the local
government offices
we drive into the small village well off
the main road
most of the killing was around this
government building
we're prepared to hear anything that
officials have to say about what
happened
we turn to make another pass and our car
is pulled over
well here we are it doesn't look like
we're going to be able to
go right down into this town but it's
interesting it's not a very big place
what prompts 270 people
okay
without the mysterious interviewing
permit we supposedly require
we must leave none the wiser about these
events
we make our way along one last long
stretch of road
heading for our final destination
[Music]
then on day 10 we reach kashgar
the city seen by many as the cultural
home of the uyghurs
centuries ago travellers who made it
across the desert
would abide this place with relief
upon making it all the way to these
crumbling alleyways
we must ask ourselves what we've
garnered from the trip
well in short it's a complex and
possibly deteriorating situation
with many answers yet to come
much of the discussion about the violent
clashes in xinjiang
has revolved around the question of
whether or not they've been
caused by international jihadist groups
encouraging this behavior
or local disaffection following
government policy on say
beards or veils but there's another
theory being put about by some academics
that this is really the inevitable
result of what you might call a colonial
type
policy where one culture subjugates
another and dominates it
that this causes general unhappiness in
the community
and it doesn't take much for it to rise
to the top
said to be involved in attacks or
planning attacks
have been rounded up by the dozen for
execution
but the crackdown has also taken in
moderate critics
beijing-based wiga economist ilham totti
was given life imprisonment last week
after he simply criticized government
policies in xinjiang
[Music]
if even reasoned analysis is not allowed
some china watchers are warning that
beijing could be pushing the uyghurs
straight into the hands of religious
extremists
traveling to this historic city it's
fair to say that we've been
harassed unrelentingly all the way
but at the end of our journey we can put
xinjiang behind us
yet for people who live here this is
their daily life experience
and there's no indication that that's
about to change
in a hurry
watch abc news live stream anywhere
anytime
on abc iview keep up to date with the
latest breaking stories from around the
corner
and across the globe and you can catch
up on all your favorite abc
news and current affairs programs head
to abc eye view and live stream
abc news now this week on news breakfast
we'll count down to christmas with one
of australia's favorite actors
william mcginnis who's just released a
surprising new book about the festive
season and
how to look after those furry bundles of
joy we'll talk all things pets with the
rspca
don't miss it
tonight sydney's northern beaches under
lock down as authorities scramble to
regain control of covert 19.
and the rest of the country begins
shutting new south wales out
western australia reinstates its hard
border
[Music]
also ahead the united states gets its
second vaccine approved and in adelaide
annihilation
india posts its lowest innings total on
record as australia wraps up the test
good evening and welcome to abc news i'm
maryam saab
more than a quarter of a million sydney
siders are tonight in lockdown
and the rest of the city is on notice
that everyone else could also
soon be living with tougher restrictions
that's because the northern beaches
cluster
is still growing 23 infections have been
found in the past
24 hours including 10 that were reported
yesterday
there are now 38 cases in this week's
outbreak plus another two
that are under investigation
closing time came early for angus
o'donnell his cafe
was excited about the festive season and
the chance to recoup losses
from a horror year but like most others
they've been forced to shut up shop
gonna be pretty bad i think
we were shot for seven months during the
big peak
of coronavirus so hopefully that doesn't
happen again
as the clock struck five the lockdown
came into force
not that you could tell at manly beach
the only clue
everyone here is exercising otherwise
they risk a one thousand dollar fine
but the public health order just
reinforces how serious the situation is
and allows us if we need to to undertake
any compliance activity
we do not want on our northern beaches
to be responsible for seeding this
across sydney or new south wales or
indeed anywhere else
just as we saw in the last lockdown
shoppers scurried for essentials
less than a week until christmas santa
was out of season
but there were again long lines at
testing clinics
taking a screenshot of the cloud at the
end dozens queued before they'd even
opened we've had our bacon and eggs
already had a had a coffee
cleaned up ready to uh ready to roll in
looks like they're starting to move
right now
but we were here for about five and a
half hours yesterday so we made it a
little bit earlier
food proved a popular way to pass the
time there were huge queues here
yesterday our son was here for six and a
half hours
he had in the end to excuse me to call
for
takeaway pizza for others patience was
wearing thin
about seven hours seven hours and then
left with no test so it's just not good
enough
worshippers are hoping and praying
churches will reopen by christmas
people were here on the driveway in
their cars actually praying
in front of the church an avalon gym is
among dozens of alerts across sydney the
premier fears the situation
could get worse before it gets better it
seems apparent to us that we'll have
around the same number if not more cases
tomorrow
and that's why we've taken the action
we've had
now the rules of this lockdown will be
familiar to most of us they're the same
as those of
earlier this year so at this stage they
only apply to residents
on the northern beaches that's an area
stretching from manly to palm beach in
the north
and west to french's forest until
midnight on wednesday
people living inside this zone are only
allowed to leave the house
for four reasons they are work
shopping for basic needs exercise
medical reasons
or to provide essential care police have
the power to issue fines
up to one thousand dollars to anyone
caught breaking the health order
and people in greater sydney are being
told to cancel their plans
and stay home the abrupt paws on the
festive season is dealing a real blunt
shock to businesses and the health alert
is seeing people flock to testing sites
creating massive cues and waiting times
bumper to bumper at bondi as the effect
of the northern beaches cluster
is felt in the city's east family in the
northern beaches so i just thought it
would be best
it has been quiet at this testing site
for weeks
but suddenly the queue is six hours long
i got here at 8 45 i got hit early then
it opened
and still here we've been in the car now
for
four and a half hours and
nothing to eat nothing to drink and no
toilet but obviously the government's
not organised enough to
be prepared for this a coronavirus case
visited bondi westfield on tuesday
as did another tour cafe north west in
riverston
our staff have all been all off now and
they're getting tested and they won't
come back until the results come in
further south residents were doing their
bit to boost
testing numbers a little bit unwell i
felt like i've had the flu for a couple
of days gotta develop a bit of a cough
it was manly on friday so i thought oh
you might as well do it
yeah just in case in parramatta wet
weather sent people
indoors but across the city businesses
have been receiving
scores of cancellations emma withy has
been fielding
some of the calls so we saw like a huge
decrease in like bookings
we had hardly any walk-ins last night
like i was meant to work was called off
others are also feeling the effects of
the latest outbreak
i think bondi just as a whole seems
really quiet
so yeah we've cooled people up like off
and everything so yeah
it's been quite full on while it's only
the northern beaches in
official lockdown people across the city
are effectively being asked to do the
same thing
the premier is pleading with sydney
siders to stay at home
unless they have to leave for essential
reasons
the premier says greater sydney should
be prepared for tougher restrictions
we are still considering that i just
want to put everybody on notice that
that is a possibility
we'll see over the next seven days how
many secondary cases we'll get of that
and hopefully
with people staying at home will get few
it has cast doubt over christmas plans i
think everybody
everybody's plans are upside down and
just
close family simple unless we see a
dramatic change
it's going to put our brakes on a lot of
what we're planning to do
getting to the normal again and then
that happens and
yeah i think just frustrated an
ever-changing new normal
kathleen ferguson abc news sydney to
some breaking news now
this year's sydney to hobart yacht race
has been cancelled amid coronavirus
concerns
in a statement race organizers say
safety is top of mind for everyone
involved
but they're bitterly disappointed to
make the call now this is the first time
in 76 years that the race will not be
conducted
western australia will reinstate its
hard border with new south wales from
midnight
western standard time with travel from
new south wales
no longer permitted without an exemption
the ban applies to anyone who has been
in new south wales
since december 11. given the size of the
sydney outbreak
and recent advice from this afternoon's
a hppc
meeting our acting chief health officer
has recommended that new south wales
now move from being a low risk state to
a medium risk
state this means effective from midnight
tonight
that is 1201 am sunday december 20
the hard border with new south wales
will be reinstated
this is the highest rating of any state
or territory
only victoria south australia and new
south wales previously
have been given this risk rating as a
result
travel from new south wales will no
longer be committed
unless you are an exempt traveler this
also applies to anyone
who may have been in new south wales
since december 11
and hasn't completed 14 days in a lower
risk
state or territory this means from
midnight tonight they will need to meet
a strict exemption category
to enter wa this exemption system
is the same arrangement as we have used
before the exemption list for new south
wales is limited to
certain senior government officials a
certain active military personnel
a member of the commonwealth parliament
a person carrying out
functions under the law of the
commonwealth a person responsible for
freight
transport freight or logistics and
anyone given approval by the state
emergency coordinator or an authorised
officer
the final category includes
compassionate reasons
including those west australians that
may have traveled
to new south wales recently and needs
need to return to wa
these people will be assessed on a
case-by-case basis
and will be required to complete 14 days
of self-quarantine
victorian authorities are considering
declaring all of sydney a covert hotspot
but so far have stopped short of closing
state borders it comes as victoria
recorded its 50th straight day without
community transmission
margaret paul has the story touchdown
and test who are you traveling from
today
from today anyone arriving from sydney
is being encouraged to get a test
we understand what melbourne people have
been through for many months
this is the least we can do melbourne
airport was host
to a lot of changed plans my sister was
meant to come from melbourne
and we're meant to all have a christmas
together in manly where my brother lives
um so obviously that's all being
cancelled now it all went smooth and i'm
great to be home
and oh it's scary too just wanting to
get out
i just think after what we went through
in melbourne this year
um i didn't want to i didn't want to
live through it again
that's a view shared by authorities as
victoria recorded its
50th straight day of no community
transmission
that's a precious but wonderful
achievement and i want to thank all
victorians for their efforts
from today people aren't permitted to
enter victoria from sydney's northern
beaches
those from greater sydney are being
asked to get a test
if the virus has spread the government
will make the whole city a red zone
that will mean anyone who has been in
sydney will not be allowed into victoria
six people who have traveled from the
northern beaches are now
in hotel quarantine in melbourne
including
two unaccompanied minors and their carer
that family
from the red zone will be spending
christmas in hotel quarantining
there are two new cases in hotel
quarantine in victoria bringing the
total to 10.
while air borders are being toughened
there was no visible police presence at
this main border crossing in aubry
we need to have a consideration about
what the actual risk is just across the
border in new south wales and
regional new south wales is not anything
more than a negligible risk at the
moment
but authorities say they'll close the
border if they need to
i'd certainly encourage the victorian
government to keep our borders open
that's
really important for our community from
today anyone entering victoria from new
south wales
needs a permit so far more than 52
000 people have applied the system is
likely to be in place for at least
the next two weeks
well the growing cluster is having
far-reaching effects
many of those on board an afternoon
darwin to sydney flight were still
unsure about what will happen on their
return to the northern territory
the outbreak in sydney's northern
beaches has thrown some territorians
holiday plans into disarray
plenty of travelers at darwin airport
were ready to risk the trip to new south
wales
not actually sydney i'm going down the
south coast so i just get picked up at
the airport in a car and drive straight
out of there without um
breathing sydney air i think new south
wales got it under control
got belief in them with the northern
beaches already a hot spot
those staying in sydney are worried
about having to quarantine on the way
home
if more areas are added to the list i am
a little bit worried
but my daughter says seems to be okay
around the botany area where she's
staying so fingers crossed
but other passengers transiting to
places like canberra were willing to
spend two weeks at howard springs if the
outbreak spreads
we've been in the remote community for
the whole year now and we haven't been
able to see our families
so it's pretty it's a tricky decision
but i think for a six week holiday
we can spare two weeks to quarantine
when we come back if we need
most state authorities have responded
today along with australia's chief
medical officer
but in the northern territory no one was
speaking only a statement from the
health minister's department
saying the nt government was monitoring
the situation in new south wales
that statement also confirmed one person
who had recently been to the northern
beaches is in quarantine at howard
springs
while another is headed back to sydney
after quarantining for one night in
alice springs
it comes as two more people test
positive to coronavirus at the howard
springs facility
a 77 year old woman who arrived from
chennai on monday
and a 56 year old woman who arrived from
paris on thursday
cameron gulley abc news
australia still doesn't have a
coronavirus vaccine while health
officials in the united states
have just given the green light to their
second millions of doses of moderna will
start rolling out within days
it provides almost 95 protection
and comes just a week after the fisa
vaccine was approved
abc correspondent greg jennett reports
from washington
on this one the number two went first
mike pence his wife and the surgeon
general karen and i
were more than happy to step forward to
take this safe
and effective coronavirus vaccine
all up to take the shot that the
president has not
i got the facts and i made a choice to
protect
my health politicians were never at the
front of the queue for the first vaccine
okay that was reserved for health
workers
and now for nursing home residents
like jean peters in hartford connecticut
i'm 95.
i'm still counting
soon stocks will be bolstered for others
now that approval has been given
to release almost 6 million doses of a
second vaccine
made by moderna we are poised
to have vaccine for 20 million americans
before the end of december
it is truly a medical miracle
the christmas break is looming but the
pandemic pauses for nothing
especially not in a country where more
than 17 million people
have been infected daily deaths from
coronavirus
are stuck above 3 000. modeling suggests
it'll soon climb above 4 000. proof
positive
that america's hurting and its pain will
stretch
into another wretched year snow is
falling the tree
but in the spirit of the season and then
the tinsel i mean he's like so
particular
like strand at a
is there any credit joe biden could give
the current president
i think what he's done getting the
vaccine
moving has been positive he gets his
vaccine shot
next week greg janet abc news
washington with more than 10 million
cases
one country is playing a pivotal role in
the global fight against the virus
and that's india the country's ability
to produce affordable drugs
has earned it the reputation as the
world's pharmacy
its manufacturer is already pumping out
tens of millions of vaccines
that are cheap and easy to store south
asia correspondent james oaten reports
this is pune one of india's premier
education cities
known locally as the oxford of the east
it's also home to a powerful weapon in
the fight against covert 19.
the world's largest vaccine manufacturer
it's an immense and huge sense of
responsibility that now
rests on our company's ability to
perform
when the pandemic struck the
family-owned company overhauled its
assembly line
and bet big on various coronavirus
vaccines
long before the data was clear one of
them
is the oxford astrazeneca jab it was
not only a big gamble but also it was
well it was a calculated risk
the company can pump out a whopping 500
doses a minute
and aims to produce up to 400 million by
april
the visa vaccine has been widely
heralded as the beginning of the end of
the pandemic
but for countries like india it has two
major drawbacks
it's expensive at nearly 50 dollars a
dose
and it must be kept at incredibly low
temperatures
ultra cold storage facilities which are
available in the west
like minus 70 degrees centigrade are
just not possible to be replicated in
india
india has been a testing ground for
vaccines that are expected to be much
cheaper around four to eight dollars a
dose and only require
normal fridge temperatures neurologist
dr padmastrovastav volunteered for a
locally developed vaccine
cavaccin when my institute was part of
the trial
i thought it's a great opportunity to be
part of science
and contributing to it we should
understand that these vaccines which are
made in india
are not only for the indians but is also
for the whole world
india isn't the only major player in
vaccine production
china is also pushing its products and
already has
indonesia locked in for millions of
doses frankly they think that it's a
two-legged race only
and they think that they need to beat
the west the indians will not be so
pushy
look for the first two years there will
be a shortage and a kind of
uh chaos but things will settle down and
uh
everyone's going to get the vaccine
there's hope
on the horizon james ogden abc news
hospitals in the united kingdom are
struggling to cope with more coveted
missions now
than they had in the first wave new data
shows that 1 in 95 people in england had
the virus last week
those on the front line say the growing
infection rate is having a noggin effect
across the hospital system
we are now at a really dangerous point
where we could tip
into finding it incredibly difficult to
manage
now despite a device from public health
experts
prime minister boris johnson is still
allowing rules to be relaxed over
christmas
but he has warned england may follow
wales and northern ireland into a
post-christmas lockdown
[Music]
to sport now international tennis
players will be on charter flights into
melbourne
and allowed to train during two weeks of
hotel quarantine
leading up to the australian open the
victorian government has signed off on a
bubble plan
in which players and support staff will
travel between designated hotels
and melbourne park now tennis officials
have warned that any breaches of strict
rules
will result in players being thrown out
of the tournament
and the country match point for party
the dates set
for the australian open and now a
quarantine plan for players
has been signed off they're very strict
requirements you know clearly
it's a balancing act about 1100 players
in their entourage will touch down in
melbourne next month
to undergo two weeks of mandatory hotel
quarantine
they'll be allowed out to train for up
to five hours each day
all of the time that they're spent
training is
observed to make sure that they're not
mixing
there's any breaching of those
conditions that play will be immediately
removed from our country and
as well as be fine i would hope that
there is proper scrutiny over those
quarantine issues and make sure that
those
any outbreak is limited spectators will
be staggered throughout the stands here
at melbourne park
organizers are planning for crowds at 50
capacity but that could all change with
just over
50 days to go until the open gets
underway
obviously anything can change and we'll
be fully aware of that
while there's certainty over the
australian open other major sporting
events are in doubt
cricket officials remain confident the
sydney test can go ahead
but there's heavy cloud over the sydney
to hobart yacht race
the sydney to hobart is actually the
race that actually stops the nation
people come from all over australia to
participate in the race
as well as watch the race for it to not
to go ahead
obviously it is unprecedented smooth
sailing for some events
a bumpy ride for others tom maddox abc
news
melbourne india has been bowled out for
its
lowest score in test history to be
crushed by australia inside three days
in the first test at the adelaide oval
it's the first time indian captain virat
kohli has lost a test after winning the
toss
while australia remains unbeaten in pink
ball matches
when the lights were last on in this day
night test the indians had a handy lead
and although they lost to lake wicket
australia's spinning was interesting
i think it puts us in a very good
position to take a few more early
wickets tomorrow and get ourselves uh
really in the hunt for this game as it
turned out though there was no hunt
instead it was a stroll for the home
side
easy catch pat cummins did the damage
first up with two scalps
before josh hazelwood nicked off two
more and all of a sudden india was five
for fifteen
and then india's premier batsman became
cummins 150th test wicket
it took a while to confirm but virat
kohli eventually left
and will soon depart australia to be at
the birth of his first child
next it was hazelwood's turn again two
wickets in his many deliveries
the second his 200th test victim
[Applause]
8 for 26 but this boundary at least took
the indians beyond the lowest test
score in history it was a brief respite
as hanumak bihari became australian
skipper tim payne's fifth catch
and the innings ended when mohamed
sharmi was forced to retire hurt
there was pain for joe burns too
staggered by this blow as the home side
pursued the meager target
he pushed through the pain to find some
form while matthew wade was in good
touch
and a touch unlucky to get out he's just
flicking all the stumps as easy
the boxing day test looms but australia
may already have landed the knockout
blow in the series
neil cross abc news adelaide
[Music]
on the satellite a monsoon trough and
developing low in the northern tropics
are generating heavy rains storms and
gusty winds
troughs are triggering showers and
storms in parts of queensland
the northern territory wa and south
australia
and cool winds in the wake of a cold
front are bringing showers to the
southeast
looking around the country for tomorrow
next mostly sunny in queensland's
southeast
clearing showers in the southwest and
showers for the north
in new south wales and the a.c.t showers
for the northeast and southeast
sunny elsewhere a mostly sunny day in
victoria with the exemption of some
showers and storms in the southeast
showers for tasmania's southwest and
northeast late showers elsewhere
in south australia sunny in the
southeast and central parts
showers in the west and late showers in
the north
sunny in wa south windy in the northwest
and showers in the northeast
and a wet day for the northern territory
with rain expected in the north
and showers increasing over the interior
and south
looking ahead to monday's forecast for
our capital cities rain for sydney
showers developing in melbourne a shower
or two for adelaide and canberra and
hobart
partly cloudy in brisbane sunny in perth
and showers and a possible storm for
darwin with the top there of 32.
the community of carbon haben in central
victoria is
banding together to save the town's
general store from closure
it's a trend for several regional
community cooperatives to buy
and revive their town's pubs or other
businesses
now one small town is taking a further
step
with plans to build its own solar farm
the colbin aven general store is open
for business
the store was going to close down but
this small rural community in central
victoria had other ideas
the benefit of of using a cooperative is
that you can
input a lot of your your labor costs for
renovating and restoring the general
store
with volunteers and you also
inspire a little bit more buying into
the general store
it's a management model that is becoming
more common in regional victoria as milk
bars and pubs struggle under rising
costs
[Music]
it's what small towns have got to do
these days is
if something's going to close down you
just got to go out and buy it
and and do what we've done here and get
the
people to participate but it's not just
small businesses that are being taken
over by volunteers
in newstead the town is pulling together
to build a solar farm
everyone in newstead and in our region
can tap
into that for renewable energy
regardless of whether they can afford to
put solar on their homes or not
the farm would be built here on the
outskirts of newstead
and is being seen as a solution to the
lack of large-scale solar farms being
built in victoria
it's being seen as a way a small country
town can take ownership of its future
and help the state meet its energy needs
these
smaller projects are going to take some
of the pressure off the grid and
be a short-term solution while we wait
for 10 or
15 years for these large-scale projects
to really come on stream
in colburn avenue the new store owners
are relishing the return of tourists to
the silo art trail
we're kind of tying the whole community
together rather than it just being a
sort of one stop look at the solos and
then people move on again
it's a town ready to do business tyron
dalton abc news
and just before we go a quick recap of
the breaking news from this hour
the sydney to hobart yacht race has been
cancelled this year due to coronavirus
concerns
very disappointing news for many it's
the first time the event won't be
running
in 76 years now organizers say they're
looking forward to getting the race back
up again
in 2021 that's the latest from abc news
remember you can keep
up to date at news.abc.net.edu and our
live view
i'm mariam saab stay with us the world
this week coming up next thanks
[Applause]
[Music]
we are
specs returns for a special episode
celebrating music of the 2010s
whether you like to shout geronimo as
you swing from the chandelier or you'd
rather shake it off and get lucky
we've got a show that'll hit you like a
wrecking ball
guests include kate miller heike vance
joy claire hooper and luke mcgregor
with team captains miff warhurst and
alan bro
see you very soon australia the specs
and specs 2010 special tomorrow
on abc and eye view they're swapping the
classroom for the pressure cooker
there's only going to be one winner
tonight it's not going to be like at
school where everyone gets a ribbon
but will it be tom that's left feeling
the heat
you're probably thinking what's smug
mean it's very much the definition of
utah
hard quiz kid special wednesday 7 30
on abc and iview monday
poe speaks to stan i knew it worked to
my advantage
to play to what i looked like i've never
really
identified as being female or asian
you just want to do interesting things
stan grants one plus one
monday at 8 on abc and iview
whenever you want wherever you are know
the story with abc news
the most trusted news source get
breaking news updates with live
notifications
plus the latest news from australia and
around the world this will be the first
step in an ever expanding bubble go to
news.abc.net.u
or download the news app
[Music]
hello and welcome to the world this week
i'm guiris sallani coming up
a dark covert christmas looms with
lockdowns in europe
surging cases in japan and many us
hospitals on the brink
former melbourne school principal mark
oliver is set to return to australia
to face sexual abuse charges and the
former intern who took on a high flying
tv star
and reignited china's me too movement
well europe and the united kingdom are
heading into one of their darkest
ever holiday periods with cases of covet
surging in france president emmanuel
macron
has tested positive and there is
concerns other european leaders
may be infected now london has been
forced back
into a strict lockdown as northern
ireland prepares for its own lockdown
from boxing day
there's also worrying signs in germany
where the death toll
has reached new highs europe
correspondent
samantha holly reports bratwurst
washed down with mulled wine and some
festive cheer
there's nothing quite like a german
christmas market
germans have gathered like this since
the 14th century
now the stores are closed the spirit all
but gone
everybody loves the german christmas and
with all the
christmas markets the lights everywhere
we're singing a lot and so on
and this will be yeah absolutely
different to all other christmas before
germany once seen as a european leader
in the battle against
clover 19 is faltering a rapid surge in
case numbers
means a harsh crackdown on christmas
cheer
currently every three minutes uh
somebody in
germany dies with or off corona
and that of course is the signal of a
of an enormous catastrophe in which we
find ourselves
there was one last shopping rush hours
before
non-essential stores were due to close
schools finished early two and only
limited family gatherings will be
allowed
on christmas day
let's weigh up what is really important
to us i will not be celebrating
christmas with the highest number of
guests permitted
most of the nation's 3 000 christmas
markets
will shut we have millions of visitors
every december during the christmas time
here in cologne
and this year 2020 everything stopped
it dropped to zero you can see
and feel that the mood is very low
there's still some creative joy if
indiana's best
it's a lovely idea we like it a lot this
year
a drive-through christmas market with
less hot wine
will have to do samantha hawley abc news
to india which has suffered one of the
worst outbreaks of the pandemic
recording almost
10 million cases in recent weeks the
crisis has eased but the shocking death
toll
has left a deep scar intensive care
units remain at capacity with many
patients
suffering severe symptoms south asia
correspondent james orton reports
the pies at delhi's largest cremation
ground have been burning around the
clock
the situation is really bad 40 to 50
covered dead bodies are coming daily the
last two months
have been like this the capital has just
endured its deadliest wave yet
at its peak five people were dying an
hour
and the death toll has remained
stubbornly high
the fear of getting infected is always
there but we are performing essential
duties so we have to work
we can't just run away so it's 9 30
right now
and i'm headed for my 24 hour shift it's
also been an unrelenting year for dr
nandini passi
who's documented her time on the front
line
i'm so tired i don't know whether to
eat or sleep or take a bath
dr passi has been scanning the lungs of
covered patients
she's seeing damage far worse than
previous waves
and that's clogging the intensive care
units there have been patients of state
for over a month in the hospital
doctors say covert 19 is still
unpredictable
and the sheer spread of the disease
means they're witnessing the gamut of
symptoms
there are young people many young people
who are getting quite a severe form of
infection
even though we were expecting a number
of rise in the cases what we were not
expecting was a rise in the severity
that was seen in the
younger and the middle-aged group
india's vaccination program could begin
as early as
next month i hope it just all of this
ends
real soon because i think the world has
seen enough but vaccinating the second
most populous nation
will be a long and arduous task james
oaten abc news
well after years of legal wrangling
israel's justice minister has signed an
extradition order
to send former melbourne school
principal mark oliver
back to australia to face 74 charges
of sexual abuse laifa allegedly fled
australia for israel
in 2008 when she learned a complaint was
to be filed with police
middle east correspondent eric torchek
reports
this is a significant decision because
it's the last time
that uh malkolife can appeal to the
supreme court
trying to block attempts to return her
to australia
and it means that israel's justice
minister will be able to sign the
extradition order
and she'll be able to jump onto a plane
and head and head to melbourne to face
trial one of the judges commented that
there's no legal avenue that malcolm
life's defence team has not pursued
attempting to block her extradition this
case had stalled for a number of years
because she said that she was
incapacitated by mental illness
secretly filmed video by private
investigators
proved that to be untrue and then in his
subsequent israeli police investigation
confirmed that and she was put in prison
on remand and the extradition hearings
were restarted
after a two-year delay and that's how we
came to this point two years later
it's actually been six years uh since
this process started
and the supreme court commented that now
you know there's there's nothing
stopping the
the extradition um there there is there
is one small uh thing that can happen
which is that um
the justice minister's signature can be
appealed but that's an administrative
process it doesn't go to a full hearing
of the supreme court
in china a former intern has ignited the
country's me too movement
by taking a high-profile tv host from
national broadcaster
cctv to court the sexual harassment case
is currently adjourned
but it has the potential to change
chinese society
as jordan butler explains
defying the cold and police crowds
gathered outside a court in beijing
hoping to see justice for 27 year old
screenwriter
joshua
has accused popular tv host zhu zhung of
groping
and forcibly kissing her when she was an
intern at china state broadcaster
cctv in 2014.
[Applause]
jeuzen who did not show up to the
hearing denies all wrongdoing and is
suing for defamation
in china it is unusual for cases like
shianzo's to even get to this stage
unfortunately the court system seems to
be um more
open to as a route for people
for alleged harassers to file defamation
suits or file
violations of labor contract with their
company for being punished
um than it is for uh uh survivors of
sexual harassment to
choose to access justice in the past
authorities have sought to quash the
growing feminist movement in china
in 2015 five feminists were detained for
planning a campaign against sexual
harassment on public transport
lee miyazu was one of these women she
went to the court to show support for
sianzu
before me too people might think not all
cases can stand a trial
and tend to believe it can't get you
anything but constant humiliation
china doesn't have a rich ground for a
movement like me too to grow
censorship remains one of the biggest
barriers for chinese women wanting to
come forward
on the day of shianzi's court case local
media were told not to cover it
and at least two foreign reporters were
dragged away what
is really miraculous about the metoo
movement or the feminist movement in
china is that it
there is one at all because china is the
world's
most powerful authoritarian regime
um it had there is no
internet freedom whenever you post
a me to hashtag or something related to
sexual violence um or feminism it's
often
deleted within minutes if not
seconds by sensors in new york feminist
writer later hong
fincher says shianzo's case is pushing
chinese society forward
the momentum for the movement has become
so broad and so
strong that it's really difficult to
wipe out at this point and so
you can see the government is trying to
give
a little bit of space to the movement
and that's extraordinary for sianzu her
fight continues behind the closed doors
of this courtroom the case was adjourned
to a later date
but that is not stopping her she's
calling for xu xing to appear in court
and for all three judges in her case to
recuse themselves
while it's not known when shianzu will
be back in court win or lose her story
has become a defining moment for china's
metoo movement
jordan butler abc news to indonesia
where they return from exile of fire
brand cleric ryzek shihab
is causing a political headache for
president joko widodo
and while he is often seen as a major
figure in indonesia's hardline
islamist politics some of his supporters
in australia
say he is so much more tasha wilbawa
reports
when firebrand muslim cleric rizzik
shihab returned to indonesia
he received a hero's welcome
shihab's appeal attracts hundreds of
thousands
both at home and overseas although much
smaller than rallies in jakarta
echoes of support can be heard all the
way in melbourne
australian resident muhammad edwards
says he doesn't align with shihab's
political party
the islamic defender's front but says
the cleric stands for something
lacking in indonesia's current
government stability
at a time where the nation is struggling
this is
as a result of the government policy
itself
the rhetoric that government use
in itself is actually dividing
people shihab spent three years in saudi
arabia in self-imposed
exile after facing pornography and other
criminal charges
which was later dropped over the weekend
he was arrested for holding mass
gatherings in violation
of indonesia's coronavirus social
distancing restrictions
his return to indonesia comes as the
country grapples with the highest number
of coronavirus deaths in southeast asia
killing close to twenty thousand people
rizzik shihab's largest supporter base
is in java
indonesia's most populated island which
has also been the hardest hit
by covert 19. rizik has been
a symbol of grievances against
the current government or more broadly
the social order
precisely because all of the parties in
indonesia right now
except for two of them are in the
coalition with president jokowi
last week six of his supporters were
killed
during a stash with indonesian police
it's a tricky situation for jokowi's
government
that is struggling to deal with the
cleric's reinvigorated support base
tasha wibawa abc news papua new guinea's
prime minister james marape has
fended off an attack on his leadership
after a month of political turmoil
but he says he won't be changing his
nationalistic approach to mining
claiming that's the way to stop png
being reliant
on economic support from countries like
australia
png correspondent natalie whiting has
more
at the start of this week papua new
guinea's opposition was signing a vote
of no confidence motion
and appeared to have a majority in
parliament but in p g politics
things can change quickly in a surprise
move yesterday
several mps who had walked out on the
prime minister james murape
including his former deputy returned to
cheers
and hugs a month ago many of these
politicians were criticizing mr morape's
leadership
especially his economic management and
handling of the resources sector
his tough negotiations have seen a major
gold mine in the country
stop operating mr murape says he's open
to hear the concerns of his newly
returned colleagues
but says his core policies won't be
changing
i don't want this country to be
borrowing money from australia or japan
or china or
world bank adb five years ten years from
today that is taking back our resources
for our people i make no apologies to
anyone
i can't go into china and run businesses
in china my mind i can go elsewhere
this is my country i need to give fair
opportunity to my people and that
hardcore nationalist agenda will remain
called to us
mr murape used his numbers in parliament
to adjourn it until
april but the opposition has already
indicated it plans to go to the supreme
court
to seek a recall of parliament so that
its vote of no confidence motion
can be processed mr murape's supporters
lined the streets to cheer for him as he
left parliament
but other papua new guineans have
expressed frustration
that their mps have been so focused on
political maneuvering
when there are so many issues in the
country that need to be addressed
coronavirus cases in japan are soaring
forcing the government to suspend a
domestic travel campaign
aimed at stimulating the economy north
asia correspondent jake sturma reports
from tokyo holidays are a time to travel
see the family and wish for good luck at
shinto shrines which are busily
preparing for an influx of visitors
but this year it'll be a little
different many japanese are heeding
health warnings coming
early to beat the crowds and kovid
a stark contrast to the 2 million people
who usually
visit this shrine in the first few days
of each year
healthcare services will be strained if
the infection spreads
because of socializing during new years
people should spend their holidays
quietly
[Music]
with an eye on the economy the
government persisted with a scheme to
boost the domestic travel industry
despite mounting health warnings
but cases are spiking as winter sets in
and
people head indoors in one hospital
where 197 staff and patients tested
positive
it's even had to deploy military nurses
and it's now
suspended the travel subsidy scheme
travel should not necessarily be blamed
for a surge in new cases
but we will focus on measures to curb
the spread during the holiday period
suspending go-to travel was the right
decision however this will only prevent
the virus spreading in regional areas so
we need to reduce big gatherings in
cities like tokyo and osaka
restaurants are still doing all they can
to encourage customers to keep
coming in as safely as possible some
are delivering food by robots other
venues are going much more
low-tech this shop serves its food and
drinks with disposable face shields so
customers can continue
eating and drinking uninterrupted it's a
pandemic prompted
touch that seems sure to stick around
jake sturmer abc news tokyo
well the pandemic has left tourism
industries across the world
on the brink of collapse but few
countries have felt the impact as much
as nepal
last year around two and a half million
tourists and mountaineers traveled there
but in 2020 so far only about six and a
half thousand people have turned up
there's nothing quite like nepal this
small himalayan nation has long drawn in
tourists from across the world for its
marvels
both natural and man-made but these
wonders
are much quieter than usual
with 19 surveys when covert 19 started
people like us working in the tourism
sector got into trouble
infection is more prevalent in nepal now
i don't know when it will open
there is less hope than before nepal
abruptly
cut short its lucrative mountain
climbing season in march
followed by an extensive lockdown
the sang sherpa is eating through her
savings to support her and her teenage
daughters
while her colleagues have returned to
their home villages to work their fields
the government has not listened to our
voices we have worked through our own
struggles
the government does not seem to listen
to our problems
nepal has two distinctive tourist
seasons
march through may is popular for
mountain climbing the later months of
the year
are for trekking all the entrepreneur
and tourism worker hotel air
transportation tourism all looking for
the second option for the surviving
the country has recently opened up to
international arrivals
but the spread of the pandemic is
keeping tourists away
the fragile hospital system has
struggled as infections have risen
long queues routinely form outside
kathmandu's main public hospitals
as testing facilities have become
overstretched
they did start with a good intention but
unfortunately that's the
best thing they could do during the
lockdown period they
did not increase the testing they did
not increase the hospital capacity
and that's causing ripples across the
health system yes kovid has
killed let's say around 1500 1600 people
so far which is very sad but we have
three four times more people dying
because of other diseases i mean simple
disease like diarrheal diseases kill
people
with mass vaccination programs here
still a distant hope
many fear tourists won't return in great
numbers
for at least another year james oaten
abc news
the u.s has reached an horrific
milestone more than 300 000 deaths
from coronavirus a vaccine offers light
at the end of the tunnel but it's too
late for tens of thousands predicted to
die
in the latest surge north america
correspondent catherine dis reports
and the warning this story contains some
images that some viewers may find
confronting
another day another two and a half
thousand american lives lost
every 30 seconds a family says goodbye
[Music]
we built a monument for 911. we would
have to build a monument
every day for the last two weeks that's
just how colossal
the loss of life is
she was just amazing you know there's
really no other word for her
she wanted to be an actress or somebody
in dance so badly
there's no doubt that she would have
made that happen
[Music]
i can only think that she's looking down
from above saying oh
they all know my name you know
unfortunately it's this way
in july when coronavirus was surging
across oklahoma
amber carter's 13 year old daughter anna
woke up with a few aches and pains
within three days she could barely walk
[Music]
we just knew that something wasn't right
so uh
my husband helped her get into the van
and i took her to the hospital
and within an hour
[Music]
she was uh she had turned septic
i think you know she was just gone she
was gone
so
[Music]
july 10th was the last day that i saw
her face
she suffered from juvenile sclerodoma an
autoimmune condition
which makes her vulnerable to infection
she tested positive for covert 19 after
she died
point they didn't know that we had it
you know and they were
there was like 50 people trying to save
her and
they all risked their lives for her you
know
those people were angels you know
it's difficult to comprehend how things
could possibly get
any worse but they are and very quickly
as we enter a long cold winter one
million people are being diagnosed each
week
and hospitals are swamped
[Music]
yeah i'm really worried i'm worried that
there's going to be so many people sick
that we can't help
california became the first state to
record more than
30 000 infections in 24 hours
intensive care units will run out of
beds within days
in the next week or so i think we'll be
in a pretty much a crisis mode here
now that's just one hospital across the
county here in l.a it's uh the story is
very similar though in many hospitals
retired australian doctor mel herbert
has come back to the front lines
in his 25 years in the emergency
department he witnessed
casualties on a mass scale he's never
seen
anything like this for many patients all
he can do
is make their last days comfortable if
we really overrun the hospital
and there are no ventilators left and
patients are really sick and there's
nothing more we can do for them
then we have to just provide them the
most natural
death possible nobody wants to die alone
and nobody wants to die in pain or
short of breath so in that situation
it's about giving them some medications
like morphine or
other sedatives so that they can
transition from life to death but
without the terrible suffering
i just said um hey babies me
and he goes aha and i said you remember
all our talks that we had
and he said uh-huh and i said okay i
said i'm gonna let you go okay
i'm gonna let you be in peace i said you
can you do this anymore and he said ah
oklahoma intensive care nurse lazanne
jennings has comforted patients through
their final moments
she never imagined she'd take that
journey with her husband
and mother within three days of each
other
i'm an icu nurse and i
you know i try to save people all the
time and i couldn't save my own family
and they'll say oh zero point whatever
percent die
or 99 whatever recover but
when you have five family members and
two of them die
you know it's a really high percentage
for my family
[Music]
lausanne traveled to work in an
intensive care unit in texas where she
treated
the sickest of coronavirus patients
none of them survived she blames donald
trump for failing to take it seriously
[Music]
my mom and my husband live long enough
to vote for biden and harris
and they lived long enough to watch them
win several times since he wanted
more accounting and that was more
important to him to have them recount
votes over and over
than it was that all these people were
dying he cared more about having people
recount votes
then he cared about my loved one's life
slipping away
epidemiologist gavin mcgregor skinner
has worked on the front lines
for months he says the worst is yet to
come
this covert 19 right now
is setting new parameters it's
raising the bar it's it's it's
it's setting challenges that i thought i
was professionally and
professionally prepared for but we're
getting challenged every day
the numbers we're seeing are just for me
are just
so upsetting and mind-boggling to talk
to the doctors and nurses and
and staff that i work and train with
every day they're just done
they've just had enough and it's not
going to get any better
you know we've just had thanksgiving
we're going into the holiday season we
have christmas got new year
more people are having parties things
are going to happen and it's going to
turn out bad
the vaccine is on its way it's the
breakthrough the country needs
but it will come too late for the 300
who have already died
[Music]
one bell toll for every thousand ringing
out
across the capital
[Music]
and catherine's report ends the show
we'll be back next week with a wrap of
all the big stories from 2020 i'm giris
saldani thanks for watching
bye for now
[Applause]
it's been a year like no other
unprecedented
unimaginable unfathomable there's only
one way to look back on the year that
was
20 bloody 20.
wednesday at 8 on abc and iview
all right so let's all please bring our
a game
we're actually looking at the site of
one of the greatest crimes
of humanity depending on what character
i'm doing
it makes me more brave i've always
enjoyed
people who have beliefs that they're
certain about
real sincere belief is like rocket fuel
it's more than just comedy abc tv plus
starts january 1.
[Music]
a summer of entertainment awaits on abc
eye view
anywhere anytime
your summertime streaming is on abc eye
view
nine eight this new year's eve the
parties at yours
stay home with the abc for the biggest
night of the year
at 8 30 join rove forever
and at nine charlie pickering and zan
rowe bring you australia's biggest stars
there's only one place to be this new
year's eve that's your place with the
abc
from 8 30 on abc and iview
tonight sydney's northern beaches go
into lockdown with the rest of the city
urged to support them and stay at home
and wa slammed the door shut to new
south wales while other states also take
tough measures
[Music]
india gets to work pumping out tens of
millions of vaccine doses
and up close and personal aged care
residents
enjoy an opera performance with added
benefits to their mental health good
evening and welcome to abc news i'm
mariam saab
more than a quarter of a million sydney
siders are tonight in lockdown
and the rest of the city is on notice
that everyone else could also soon be
living with tougher restrictions
that's because the northern beaches
cluster is still growing
23 infections have been found in the
past 24 hours
including 10 that were reported
yesterday there are now
38 cases in this week's outbreak plus
another two that are under investigation
closing time came early for angus
o'donnell his cafe
was excited about the festive season and
the chance to recoup
losses from a horror year but like most
others
they've been forced to shut up shop
gonna be pretty bad i think
we were shot for seven months during the
big
peak of coronavirus so hopefully that
doesn't happen again
as the clock struck five the lockdown
came into force
not that you could tell at manly beach
the only clue
everyone here is exercising otherwise
they risk a one thousand dollar fine
but the public health order just
reinforces how serious the situation is
and allows us if we need to to undertake
any compliance activity
we do not want on our northern beaches
to be responsible for
seeding this across sydney or new south
wales or indeed anywhere else
just as we saw in the last lockdown
shoppers scurried for essentials
less than a week until christmas santa
was out of season
but there were again long lines at
testing clinics
taking a screenshot of the cloud at the
end dozens queued before they'd even
opened
we've had our bacon and eggs already had
a had a coffee
cleaned up ready to uh ready to roll in
looks like they're starting to move
right now
but we were here for about five and a
half hours yesterday so we made it a
little bit earlier
food proved a popular way to pass the
time there were huge queues here
yesterday our son was here for six and a
half hours
he had in the end too excuse me to uh
call for take away pizza
for others patience was wearing thin
about seven hours seven hours and then
left with no test so it's just not good
enough
worshipers are hoping and praying
churches will reopen by christmas
people were here on the driveway in
their cars
actually praying in front of the church
an avalon gym is among dozens of alerts
across sydney the premier fears the
situation could get worse
before it gets better it seems apparent
to us that we'll have
around the same number if not more cases
tomorrow
and that's why we've taken the action
we've had
well the rules of this lockdown will be
familiar to most of us they're the same
as those of earlier this year
so at this stage they only apply to
residents on the northern
beaches that's an area stretching from
manly to palm beach in the north
and west to french's forest until
midnight on wednesday
people living inside this zone are only
allowed to leave the house
for four reasons they are work
shopping for basic needs exercise
medical reasons or to provide essential
care
police have the power to issue fines up
to one thousand dollars
to anyone called breaking the health
order
and people in greater sydney are being
told to cancel their plans
and stay home the abrupt paws on the
festive season is dealing a real blunt
shock to businesses
and the health alert is seeing people
flock to testing sites
creating massive queues and waiting
times
bumper to bumper at bondi as the effect
of the northern beaches cluster
is felt in the cities east i've got
family in the northern beaches so i just
thought it would be best
it has been quiet at this testing site
for weeks
but suddenly the queue is six hours long
i got here at 8 45 i got hit early then
it opened
and still here we've been in the car now
for
four and a half hours and
nothing to eat nothing to drink and no
toilet but obviously the government's
not organised enough to
be prepared for this a coronavirus case
visited bondi westfield on tuesday as
did another tour cafe north west in
riverstone
our staff have all been all off now and
they're getting tested and they won't
come back until their results come in
further south residents were doing their
bit to boost
testing numbers a little bit unwell i
felt like i've had the flu for a couple
of days got to develop a bit of a cough
it was manly on friday so i thought oh
you might as well do it
yeah just in case in parramatta wet
weather sent people
indoors but across the city businesses
have been receiving
scores of cancellations emma withy has
been fielding
some of the calls so we saw like a huge
decrease in like bookings
um we had hardly any walk-ins last night
like i was meant to work was called off
others are also feeling the effects of
the latest outbreak
i think bondi just as a whole seems
really quiet
so yeah we've cooled people up like off
and everything so yeah
it's been quite full on while it's only
the northern beaches in
official lockdown people across the city
are effectively being asked to do the
same thing
the premier is pleading with sydney
siders to stay at home
unless they have to leave for essential
reasons the premier says greater sydney
should be prepared for tougher
restrictions
we are still considering that i just
want to put everybody on notice that
that is a possibility
we'll see over the next seven days how
many secondary cases we'll get of that
and hopefully
with people staying at home we'll get
few
it has cast doubt over christmas plans i
think everybody
everybody's plans are upside down and
just
close family simple unless we see a
dramatic change
it's going to put our brakes on a lot of
what we're planning to do
getting to the normal again and then
that happens and
yeah i think just frustrated an
ever-changing new normal
kathleen ferguson abc news sydney
western australia will reintroduce its
hard border with new south wales from
midnight western standard time
the state's premier mark mcgowan has
moved new south wales from low to medium
risk
travelers from new south wales planning
to arrive after midnight tonight
will need an exemption to enter jessica
warrener joins us
now from royal perth hospital where
hundreds of returned travellers have
been
getting tested in recent jet days jess
can you unpack
tonight's announcement for us
so basically mariam today started off on
quite a different note we had the health
minister up who was warning that
yes the hard border could come back but
things were proceeding
quite well really he was quite pleased
with the numbers that we were seeing out
of new south wales at that time
and it was at the 11th hour so late this
evening
that premier mark mcgowan called this
press conference to announce that the
hard border would be returning for
western australia and that's from
midnight tonight
can you explain what sort of exemptions
will be available for travellers from
new south wales
it's essentially a return to the kind of
restrictions that we had
up until quite recently for new south
wales so those exemptions
include government officials members of
commonwealth parliament
certain members of the defense force
people involved in freight and logistics
and there also are some compassionate
exemptions and it's important to note
there that those compassionate
exemptions do
include western australians who are
traveling back home
after being in new south wales and do we
have any sense as to how long this hard
border will remain
the premier was saying he's not sure at
this stage how long the hard border will
remain for
and which was at this time of year
that's devastating for a lot of families
some people were still coming through
with the 14-day
quarantine to complete we had people
coming through this morning who were
overjoyed to meet with their families
but yeah the hard border is back in
place now and we're not too sure when
that will be finishing
jessica warner with that update there
from perth thank you
victorian authorities are considering
declaring all of sydney a covert hotspot
but so far have stopped short of closing
state borders
it comes as victoria recorded its 50th
straight day without community
transmission
margaret paul has the story
touchdown and test who are you traveling
from today
from today anyone arriving from sydney
is being encouraged to get a test
we understand what melbourne people have
been through for many months
this is the least we can do melbourne
airport was host
to a lot of changed plans my sister was
meant to come from melbourne
and we're meant to all have a christmas
together in manly where my brother lives
um so obviously that's all being
cancelled now it all went smooth and i'm
great to be home
and oh it's scary too just wanting to
get out
i just think after what we went through
in melbourne this year
i didn't want to i didn't want to live
through it again that's a view
shared by authorities as victoria
recorded its
50th straight day of no community
transmission
that's a precious but wonderful
achievement and i want to thank all
victorians for their efforts
from today people aren't permitted to
enter victoria from sydney's northern
beaches
those from greater sydney are being
asked to get a test
if the virus has spread the government
will make the whole
city a red zone that will mean anyone
who has been in sydney
will not be allowed into victoria six
people who have traveled from the
northern beaches are now in hotel
quarantine in melbourne
including two unaccompanied minors and
their carer
that family from the red zone will be
spending
christmas in hotel quarantining there
are two
new cases in hotel quarantine in
victoria bringing the total to 10.
while air borders are being toughened
there was no visible police presence at
this main border crossing in albury
we need to have a consideration about
what the actual risk is just across the
border in new south wales and
regional new south wales is not anything
more than a negligible risk at the
moment
but authorities say they'll close the
border if they need to
i'd certainly encourage the victorian
government to keep our borders open
that's
really important for our community from
today anyone entering victoria
from new south wales needs a permit so
far
more than 52 000 people have applied
the system's likely to be in place for
at least the next two weeks
margaret paul reporting there well the
growing cluster is having
far-reaching effects many of those on
board an afternoon darwin to sydney
flight
were still unsure about what will happen
on their return to the northern
territory
the outbreak in sydney's northern
beaches has thrown some territorians
holiday plans into disarray
plenty of travelers at darwin airport
were ready to risk the trip to new south
wales
not actually sydney i'm going down the
south coast so i just get picked up at
the airport in a car and drive straight
out of there without um
breathing sydney air i think new south
wales has got it under control
got belief in them with the northern
beaches already a hot spot
those staying in sydney are worried
about having to quarantine on the way
home
if more areas are added to the list i am
a little bit worried
but my daughter says seems to be okay
around the bottling area where she's
staying so fingers crossed
but other passengers transiting to
places like canberra were willing to
spend two weeks at howard springs if the
outbreak spreads
we've been in the remote community for
the whole year now we haven't been able
to see our families
so it's pretty it's a tricky decision
but i think for a six week holiday
we can spare two weeks to quarantine
when we come back if we need
most state authorities have responded
today along with australia's chief
medical officer but in the northern
territory no one was speaking
only a statement from the health
minister's department saying the nt
government was monitoring the situation
in new south wales
that statement also confirmed one person
who had recently been to the northern
beaches
is in quarantine at howard springs while
another is headed back to sydney after
quarantining for one night in alice
springs
it comes as two more people test
positive to coronavirus at the howard
springs facility
a 77 year old woman who arrived from
chennai on monday
and a 56 year old woman who arrived from
paris on thursday
cameron gulley abc news
with more than 10 million cases one
country playing a pivotal role in the
global fight against the virus
is india the country's ability to
produce affordable drugs has earned it
the reputation
as the world's pharmacy its
manufacturers are already pumping out
tens of millions of vaccines that are
cheap and easy to store
south asia correspondent james oaten
reports
this is pune one of india's premier
education cities known locally as the
oxford of the east
it's also home to a powerful weapon in
the fight against covert 19
the world's largest vaccine manufacturer
it's an immense and huge sense of
responsibility that now
rests on our company's ability to
perform
when the pandemic struck the
family-owned company overhauled its
assembly line
and bet big on various coronavirus
vaccines
long before the data was clear one of
them
is the oxford astrazeneca jab it was
not only a big gamble but also it was
well it was a calculated risk
the company can pump out a whopping 500
doses a minute
and aims to produce up to 400 million by
april
the visa vaccine has been widely
heralded as the beginning of the end of
the pandemic
but for countries like india it has two
major drawbacks
it's expensive at nearly 50 dollars a
dose
and it must be kept at incredibly low
temperatures
ultra cold storage facilities which are
available in the west
like minus 70 degrees centigrade are
just not possible to be replicated in
india
india has been a testing ground for
vaccines that are expected to be much
cheaper around four to eight dollars a
dose and only require
normal fridge temperatures neurologist
dr padmastravastav volunteered for a
locally developed vaccine
cavaccin when my institute was part of
the trial
i thought it's a great opportunity to be
part of science and contributing to it
we should understand that these vaccines
which are made in india
are not only for the indians but is also
for the whole world
india isn't the only major player in
vaccine production
china is also pushing its products and
already has
indonesia locked in for millions of
doses frankly they think that it's a
two-legged race only
uh and they think that they need to beat
the west the indians will not be so
pushy
look for the first two years there will
be a shortage and a kind of
chaos but things will settle down and
everyone's going to get the vaccine
there's hope on the horizon james ogden
abc news
australia still doesn't have a
coronavirus vaccine while health
officials in the united states
have just given the green light to this
second millions of doses of moderna will
start rolling out within days
it provides almost 95 protection
and comes just a week after the fisa
vaccine was approved
abc correspondent greg jennett reports
from washington
on this one the number two went first
mike pence his wife and the surgeon
general karen and i
were more than happy to step forward to
take this safe and effective coronavirus
vaccine
all up to take the shot that the
president has not
i got the facts and i made a choice to
protect my health
politicians were never at the front of
the queue for the first vaccine
okay that was reserved for health
workers
and now for nursing home residents
like jean peters in hartford connecticut
i'm 95.